I'm very pleased to welcome you all and to welcome a very esteemed author,
not just an author,
but someone I consider a genuine friend here,
Ryan Williams.
He and I went to university together and he has a very esteemed background,
uh,
that I think a lot of you are familiar with and uh,
and have seen and I'd appreciate it if you all give him a round of applause to
welcome Ryan to the state.
[inaudible]
thank you everyone here.
It's a pleasure to be up in mountain view at Google.
So I'd like to start off by giving y'all self a round of applause for coming out
today and spending some time to talk about influencers.
So get up for yourself.
So this book is called the influencer economy.
It's about how to launch your idea,
share it with the world,
and thrive in the digital age.
So today we'll be thinking about how we can influence others to collaborate,
to share ideas,
to help build products people love.
Because ultimately when you collaborate with your community,
your customers and influential leaders in your field,
you become an influencer yourself.
So this all started for me 20 when I was 22 years old.
I'm a former,
uh,
depressed,
clinically depressed person and I say this because I was 22 living in Washington
DC and you can only imagine what my apartment looked like.
I had beer bottles and soda cans strewn across the floor.
My bed was never made for weeks at a time.
I had dishes all over the kitchen that were stacked up like you couldn't
believe.
I struggled to breathe and I went to my day job is my main outlet in order to
get over the hump of being depressed.
I did what any rational person would do.
I became a standup comedian because why wouldn't you want to be the clinically
depressed standup comedian where your main goal is to make strangers laugh at
comedy clubs with their arms folded,
drunk off flat beer eating greasy chicken wings.
Imagine this scenario with smokey bars in Baltimore,
Washington,
D c where your main goal is to make them laugh.
How do you think of what if you find out a way for it to go,
well,
please let me know.
My parents and my therapist and my now wife who was then my girlfriend at the
time,
they were curious themselves,
but I learned a lot about through standup was putting yourself out there and
dealing with rejection is what makes the experience unique.
And I ultimately pivoted my career.
I listened to the market that told me,
again,
I'll let you be the decider if I was funny or not,
but I ultimately listened to the market and I was a marketing pro.
It's stand up and I can feel amphitheaters and comedy venues and dive bars all
over DC and I'd comedy central Comedians call me up,
texting me saying,
I headline at my show and five people come,
but you can get 250 what's your secrets?
And that's what I realized.
I could pivot my career into marketing and my aspirations of being an artist.
We're going to be put on hold temporarily.
So I left the comedy world and I moved to Los Angeles and I worked at a couple
of companies.
I help raise venture capital and run marketing and as Googlers who here is
familiar with machinima.com we are a multichannel network for those that don't
know we saw,
I see a lot of people are familiar.
We're a gaming network on Youtube,
so think about ESPN for gamers where the sports instead of being football or
soccer,
their call of duty there,
Minecraft and who here has played the game?
Minecraft?
Who,
here's a better question.
Who's kids are cousins have played Minecraft.
Okay.
More hands have showed up because ultimately Minecraft was a game that we helped
launch at Machinima with no budget and I realized that our sales team was
functioning really well,
but we had no marketing.
So we're young,
we're energetic,
we needed marketing collateral.
We launched our social media and our branding and we hungry team and we were
building this amazing product.
You all,
the majority of the room are technologists here.
So you know the power of building a tech solution of how exciting it is.
So we were acquired by Warner brothers a couple of months ago for $100 million.
And ultimately Machinima was one of the pioneering groups I've ever seen to
galvanize a community because we built our products with the community,
our alpha or Beta,
our launch and our customers like with Minecraft,
which sold for two point $5 billion to Microsoft.
They built it and we help them because we let everyone into the creative
process.
So I was fascinated by influence,
right?
And the word influencer has been hijacked.
It's been hijacked by a bunch of no talent.
Zeros,
just because you get a bunch of likes on Instagram because you're sexy or these
jeans make you look sexy,
it doesn't matter,
right?
Influencers does not equals followers.
Influencers do not equal impressions.
Influence is something where you want to make a dent in life.
You want to be known.
And if we look back in 20 years,
Google will exist.
I mean it's up to you all to to keep it in business,
but Google will exist in 20 years and we will Google people's names for
influence and we're not going to find some Instagram celebrity.
We're not going to find someone who looks hot in jeans and was paid $25,000 to
tweet about a product that is not what an influencer is.
So an influencer to me is someone who can create a movement around their idea
through collaboration,
community passion and a shared vision.
It's something connective because ultimately collaboration is where influences
derived and influencers can change a small idea into a world changing one
seemingly overnight because something small become big because influencers can
endorse these ideas and also influences game through collaboration.
Often in a niche community like we did at Machinima or we had micro Minecraft
gamers and a very specific game.
We made videos around it,
we built that community and the finally influence has nothing to do with
impressions,
has nothing to do with followers and has nothing to do with any vanity metric.
Then any metrics are not real word metrics.
And how I know this is because I did some research because I live in La and
everyone there is obsessed with celebrity and Kim Kardashians and Ryan
Seacrest's are your textbook celebrities.
So I went in to their data and what I found was our Machinima influencers could
move the needle.
We had hundreds of thousands of youtube subscribers on these channels and so
people would put,
anyone here,
watch the machine.
I'm a video.
It's a bunch of game play.
Oftentimes people narrating over Minecraft.
And so imagine like,
you know,
instead of watching a football game with the announcers that someone's playing
Minecraft and telling funny stories about their life,
they're called Vlogs,
right?
Video logs,
they're really big and youtube.
So these gamers that had hundreds of thousands of subscribers would make videos
playing Minecraft.
Just educating people about the world that was in Minecraft and in aggregate
these influencers with less celebrity followers like these mascots up here,
they were influencers because in their communities in clusters of five to 10
these influencers move the needle.
And I think,
you know,
people like sea crest people that Kim Kardashian and they add value,
they drive traffic.
You know,
they,
people watch their TV shows,
they're cultural taste makers,
but they are not true social media influencers because again,
the word has been hijacked and they aren't no talent zeros,
like a lot of these influencers on Instagram because they do add value.
But ultimately I want to show you the data around why they're not influential
online.
So this is a slide literally I made years ago when I was working doing research
on celebrity investments and startups and how they move the needle.
Because again,
every silicon valley product they want to connect with a celebrity and a,
they say,
I want to get someone to tweet about my product.
There'll be an overnight success and that is wrong.
Celebrities don't move the needle as much as very targeted specific niche
influencers.
So this is Kim when she had a tweet,
again,
I ripped this directly from a deck I made years ago.
So this is uh,
you know,
I mean we're here familiar with bitly,
the data tracking software.
You can use the share links.
So she shared an episode of keeping up with the Kardashians to preview an
episode and she got around 83,000 clicks on Twitter,
right?
She has 18 million followers.
So that conversion is less than a banner ad would be.
Banner ads are terrible.
Like who hear clicks on banner ads on purpose.
Oftentimes I get mad,
right?
Cause I actually click on it and I go back,
go back,
go back.
So ultimately the influencers are very niche and targeted and Kim is super
broad.
So here you can see that she's around 0.4,
six of a percent banner ads on average,
around half of a percent.
So you may as well go spend a bunch of money on banner ads if you can spend a
bunch of cash to get Kim Kardashian to tweet about your product,
your,
your club opening in Vegas or anything relevant to her community because she's
abroad celebrity,
she's a mascot.
And what's equally fascinating about this data is you notice the decay up here
in the first 48 hours is where the bulk of her traffic comes.
So nothing is being recycled,
nothing's being circulated amongst other influencer communities to keep this
thriving.
Unlike the Minecraft videos,
which are more timeless,
more evergreen,
and more personality driven.
So all this fascinations,
after I left Machinima and I love what we were doing,
those big ideas,
we built the marketing team.
I went on to some other startups and helping them raise capital and do
marketing.
But ultimately,
I believe that the world is so fascinating right now because you can make a dent
and doing something that you can leave influence around and that ultimately
there's a bartering and there was an exchange of ideas and we truly have
navigated a new economy.
So I wrote this book to help us learn how to operate in this new economy and
helping to teach others because learning is really the fundamental of how we
exchange ideas.
And oftentimes giving value is what matters.
And that's how we navigate this new world.
So Seth Godin,
he's a fellow speaker,
uh,
at Google,
I interviewed over a hundred influencers for my podcast,
which is called stories from the influencer economy because I wanted to build an
idea and a platform ahead of my book launch.
So I talked to Adam Grant who anyone seen his talk here.
It's a really good talk.
Dorie Clark and many other influential business writers.
And I took their application and I applied there old knowledge with new
influencers in the social media space.
So Seth,
why we'll be talking about him is because he's an influencer.
He'll be around in 20 years when you Google his name.
So he talks about a tribe and how a tribe is a group of people connected to one
another,
connected to a leader,
connected to an idea.
For millions of years,
human beings have been part of one tribe or another.
Uh,
group needs only two things to be a tribe,
a shared interest in a way to communicate.
Your company at Google is led by tribes.
Everyone has different teams from research to tech.
You have a tribe leader and you are interested in connecting.
And that's ultimately what happens with storytelling and sharing of ideas and
why someone like Seth is an influencer.
So these are the chapters of the book,
which you all got a in Emoji.
I researched his book ago.
I did this slide to connect with millennials because my,
my parents didn't use Emoji,
but now my parents use Emoji.
So this slide is really for everyone.
Um,
but ultimately the Emoji chapters of the book are how you craft your big vision.
Every influencer I talked to has a big vision,
a big idea to sell you on something like Sergei and Larry,
years ago they had this big vision to solve a problem because you need buyin
from people to believe in what you're doing.
Secondly is you pick a platform.
You,
I picked a suitcase Emoji here because you've got to pick somewhere you're going
and you need to channel so it's no longer,
oh,
I want to go to coffee and pick your brain.
Right?
Those people drive me nuts.
I don't know if you,
sorry if anyone in here does that.
I'm sorry.
Not Sorry.
Actually.
Um,
because ultimately you want to collaborate with someone and you pick a channel.
It could be building an Alpha version of your product.
It could be you make youtube content.
For me it was podcasting and ultimately we are building these relationships
because that's what is currency in the influencer economy.
The next thing is a book,
your own gigs.
You have to deal with rejection.
Like Jay Z,
I actually,
this is the only Emoji that I invented.
I thought Jay Z,
you would need an an Emoji.
I mean,
who doesn't,
if anyone earned an Emoji,
it's Jay Z.
Um,
so you got gotta deal with rejection.
You have to build relationships and you have to accept failure and that you have
to do every job.
And I grew up in des Moines,
Iowa,
and it's known for corn farming.
And I'd like to say never build in a silo,
never billed by herself.
The area that,
I mean this company was founded in a garage in,
in Silicon Valley and Stanford.
But that stereotype is over.
People need to build with others.
You have to share because you need psychological and behavioral buyin from
people to help make your idea better and then moreover help spreading it.
The next is a adopt technology early and often influencers are always curious
around technology.
They needed to find tech as a solution and they can't be tech phobics.
The next one is a striving for authenticity and authenticity is a word that's
overused.
I love the word and I hate the word.
Who here likes the word authentic?
We hear it doesn't like the word right?
It's,
it's a very branded word.
It's very,
it's like influencer,
right?
It's been hijacked by a bunch of no talent.
Zeros,
so we're taking it back right now cause authenticity really means having a
strong message and being comfortable in your own skin and being affable,
being likable because you are who you are and ultimately we have flaws and we
have characteristics that we can't always execute on.
I wish I could say that every word coming out today,
we'll be perfect,
but the more likely I am to admit that I'm not perfect,
the more likely I'll be authentic.
And you only know authenticity when you see it.
And then we have collaboration,
which we'll talk about a lot today,
the fist bump capturing lightning in a bottle.
That's something that you know,
like when you double down or you need to pivot with your idea because you have
that moment where you know what your customers are telling you that they either
love it or they want you to go back to the drawing board.
And then ultimately you got to meet people in real life.
You can't rely on the you people live streaming at home.
Hopefully I'll get to meet you in person,
but ultimately you can't sit back and passively watch things on a laptop.
Influencers and influential people go out and meet people in real life.
If I only have to be a giver,
you have to open doors for other people and then you have to give people
ownership of your idea.
You have to let them buy in and celebrate with you,
your wins and your losses.
Because I have a metaphor with Benihana who here has been to a Benihana.
You know how they cook the food in front of you and you know they let you into
the creative process and you get to see the chef and they do tricks and you see
what you're about to eat and there's something psychologically fun about that.
You get to meet people at a table that you don't ordinarily,
no.
I used to celebrate my birthdays there when I was younger growing up in De
Moines,
Iowa and we loved it cause you celebrate with others.
So you have to figure out a way to cook with the community and your customers to
get them to buy in.
So these are the three types of collaboration styles and there's the
collaborators,
this is roughly 10% of your customer and community base.
These folks are the techies,
what I call the regulars.
They're the ones who build the Alpha and they're going to show up like they
would at a bar drinking with their friends every Friday at happy hour there.
The happy hour crew,
right?
The regulars there,
the one that they're going to buy it when you pilot your program and give it out
at a discount.
Because you need to build these people as your proof of concept and ultimately
they become early adopters.
They become your brand ambassadors.
And for,
for me with my book,
you know,
getting it out to my friends,
my family,
my email list,
psychologically,
a lot of people wanted to help me because they were part of the process early.
And so these are your collaborators.
They validated because people make mistakes and they want to go to influencers
early and they pitch influencers and they fall on their face because influencers
are the next group.
But you have to build a proof of concept out before you get the key stakeholders
involved.
I use the word key stakeholder because we were at a corporate company,
right.
Can you still isn't key stakeholder like the most corporate word ever.
Like I talk in front of tech entrepreneurs and it never mentioned that word.
So you had home,
just to let you know,
I'm giving it to you as a,
as a very a corporate branding here because ultimately I think that the
influencers are the one percenters that you have to have something to offer
before they want to work with you.
And you don't want to burn that bridge because ultimately they are the industry
leaders.
They're the authorities there,
the one that gives you social proof and they're your lead generators.
If you find the right influencer to collaborate with.
And again,
don't ask them just for coffee,
ask them to review your Alpha to get feedback to make your product better.
You don't want to ask them to tweet about it,
right?
Cause that's unbecoming.
And you also don't ask them for a favor.
You don't want to have someone feel like they owe you something.
Like psychologically influence comes from a win win from the mutual.
You help me,
I help you and we'll talk more about this later,
about giving as a big philosophy for influence.
Um,
and the final step here is the mass marketers.
You know,
people don't care often.
Like if influencers endorse your product,
when someone buys a nest product,
they just care that it works.
They don't care that you had an ambassador program,
that you would,
early adopters,
that you had a bunch of people that give you feedback and you got it in a best
buy.
They just want it at best buy.
And so ultimately the consumers,
the buyers,
the mass market,
they were about 90% of the groups,
right?
So you want to build something for them and it's fully baked and they're going
to buy it because it's already established.
So getting into a couple of key principles here of the book,
uh,
this is,
the plot,
the platform or that my father in law's named Joe Moore,
who here is married
of,
of you,
you,
you know what father in laws are all about.
Sometimes you'll love him sometimes,
whatever the opposite of love is,
that's how you feel.
So my father in law,
he has no idea what I do in California.
He says,
how are these startups valued at a hundreds of millions of dollars?
What do you do to add that value to the company?
Um,
where is that?
Where's the,
where's the money coming in?
Because he runs a boy,
the repair company in Raleigh,
North Carolina.
So I talked to them about influence and he was really curious about my book and
what I'm working on.
And I said,
you know,
how do you define the word influence?
And he said,
look,
you have to give people something they can't get anywhere else in quite the same
way and you have to solve the pain point.
And he gave me an example of sales.
So he has people calling him up through the southeast for boiler problems.
He gets some free advice for a half hour,
gives them just enough information that they're dangerous and then not enough
information that they can execute on it because they don't have the resources.
So he says the problem with so many people is they don't know how to solve
problems.
And ultimately that's what happens when you want to gain influence and you're
not helping people,
you're not serving a market demand.
Ultimately you have to develop a knowledge or skill that most people don't have.
And then you share it with them.
And you build that proof of concept out with your collaborators.
And then ultimately customers come because you've built something that you know,
there's a massive demand for anyone that works in Youtube.
Know who Hannah Hart is.
She's a wonderful human being.
She has a a series called my drunk kitchen and it's,
guess what?
It's about her drinking wine and getting tipsy and making food with her friends.
She's a massive success.
She turned it into a TV show.
She's a best selling book called my drunk kitchen and she's done an amazing job
raising her idea,
but she is an endearing person and she did a hello Hardo tour,
which was a crowdfunding campaign and ultimately with Hershey shared with me
that you give now and people will pay later and you have to hear their problems.
So she went out and she galvanized her base because she knew they wanted a tour.
She went around the country in a,
in a RV and people who crowdfunded her project at a certain threshold where
entered into a lottery and she wants your house and drunk cooked and then made
content around it.
So you were collaborating in her videos.
Um,
who here knows what the term collab means in the youtube ecosystem?
It's not that technical.
It means what you think,
but collabing and youtube is when someone has a video series and let's say,
let's say Payton has a video series about,
um,
building home security systems.
He works at nest,
he's super into this category.
And let's say he has 100000 youtube subscribers.
Really compelling,
Super Compelling Guy,
right?
100,000 subscribers is no small feat.
Let's say the gentleman right here in the green shirt.
Let's say you have a business vlog,
a video log where you talk about ces,
mainstream products,
and let's say a,
what's the name for your channel?
If you had one,
what's an interest of yours?
Food.
What food?
So let's call it a nerd food tech zone.
And you have a million subscribers,
right?
And Peyton with his channel is 100,000.
So you do a Collab,
you appear in his niche channel,
do a video together.
You appear in nerd food,
blog tech,
is that what we call it?
Yeah.
And,
and,
and so you have a massive channel so you collaborate.
There's no money exchanged.
Again,
it's a bartering system.
You want to help make his channel better and get him new subscribers.
But then equally you know that he's very niche and you can appear in his videos
and being a super target segment so you share audience and that bartering,
that collab is really where influence thrives.
I get back to the wind when of it all,
you have to find a mutually beneficial way to collaborate with people.
It could be through money,
it could be through equity or it could be through goodwill,
but that's what I learned from all these youtubers and a Brad Feld.
Anyone familiar with Brad?
He started at Tech Stars.
It's a big startup accelerator in Boulder,
Colorado and they essentially give $25,000 to $50,000 to early stage companies
to help them accelerate their ideas.
And Brad,
he talks about how you need to pilot your ideas and piloting or idea.
It comes down to testing something when the barrier to entry is low.
So Brad started blogging at [inaudible] dot com I would say back in oh five
right.
So now he's one of the early adopter tech bloggers and his advice to me was
don't always have a defined goal,
sometimes start something for curiosity's sake.
So he started tech starters,
which is massive incubator and accelerator.
He started it because he could make new friends or he could turn it into $1
billion business,
but most likely it was going to be somewhere in between.
So he's made new friends and they've invested in thousands of startups and he's
been there for the early stage growth.
He's become a mentor in the startup community.
Even talks about topics like depression,
like he came on my podcast recently,
talked about OCD and depression because he wants to help build communities.
And ultimately piloting or ideas is something where you can workshop when the
stakes are low because of nests breaks down.
People get mad because they paid a lot of money for the product.
But if you're piloting something with the barrier of entry low and you have no
customers,
no one's using it,
you can make those mistakes.
When no one's looking and the bright lights aren't on you.
So these guys are the,
the,
the vlog brothers.
Has anyone seen their work before the vlog brothers or the,
these these guys,
they're a,
essentially they started a conference called Vidcon,
which is a big youtube conference down in Anaheim.
And they started very small and their channel called the vlog brothers.
They do science fiction or science videos and they did one video blog a day to
each other for an entire year.
So they had 365 videos and that's how they got started,
right?
They started small.
So with influence,
it's like naming your community is a massive opportunity because they called
their community Nerdfighters and you notice they have the Spock fingers up here
on their,
uh,
thumbnail because naming and identifying your community,
like your Googlers,
right?
That's a community identifier.
Having a community of people that recognize themselves can help you galvanize
that base and you think about,
you know,
you tubers like youtubers,
that's the people that make the youtube videos and have subscribers.
Like there's a connotation there.
So identifying your customers,
naming them even just internally helps you galvanize that base.
And when you have an idea with the customer in mind,
oftentimes there's two ways to go about it.
One is you find that big vision and then you pick a platform.
So for me,
my big vision,
I'm going to write this influencer economy book.
And I started my podcast to connect with influencers,
to connect with audiences because I'm a former standup and I love doing that and
to help tell stories so people can learn.
But sometimes influencers and people that are influential,
they start small with a Vlog and that turns into vidcon years later.
And these guys are brilliant.
Branders.
One of their catchphrases is don't forget to be awesome.
Like that's assuming you're already awesome and they're reminding you not to
forget it.
So I think that's a wonderful way to think about how to build that relationship
is you got to brand your ideas creatively.
And that's really where the authenticity comes into play.
So,
uh,
another Youtuber I love is this guy named Freddie Wong.
And it's funny cause a lot of people,
they don't know who he is,
but if I ever have like anyone under the age of 16 in the crowd,
they love this guy.
He did a series called video game high school,
which is like a Harry Potter for Video Games where in the future you all have
seen it.
Like in the future there's a gaming academies and these professional gaming
academies are going to help save the world.
It's amazing.
It's been viewed a billion times online and he's crowdfunded three campaigns for
$2 million.
He was crowdfunding before spike Lee did it,
you know,
before Veronica Mars and before all these mainstream Zach Braff projects were on
Kickstarter and I loved how he used technology to his advantage.
He figured out a way to leverage tech and be an early adopter,
a mass youtube subscribers back when youtube wasn't even monetize bubble.
And He makes Scifi videos that people love and his crowd funding campaign
shattered records because ultimately Freddie had these amazing perks.
So I would take it,
most people at Google have supported a crowdfunding campaign and I love crowd
funding campaigns,
right?
Because they give you updates continually.
And so Freddy's perks define the accessibility of people with influence for
$5,000.
He had a perk where you could go with the cast and crew of video game high
school to Disney for the day.
All you had to do was get to Anaheim.
And then he would spend the whole day on rollercoaster rides and space mountain
with Freddie and his buddies that are in your favorite web series.
He had another one for 3,500,
I believe,
where he would deliver fried dough out to your front door,
anywhere in the country
or the local equivalent if you didn't have fried dough.
So glazed donuts.
And so luckily he said that it was a person in New Jersey who started that,
uh,
that bought that perk.
So he's in New York and he shifted over for work.
But ultimately that kind of cleverness,
right?
Leveraging the technology.
Can you imagine,
what would Steven Spielberg even say to you if he was on your door?
Like,
sorry Steven if you're watching,
but I mean I asked the broader question is the celebrity is a broad person with
influence but Freddy is on your mobile device,
he's on your laptop,
he's on your iPad,
he's someone that you have a connected relationship with because he's truly
influential and you're collaborating with them.
I think everyone needs to just,
if you haven't done a crowdfunding campaign and you're watching this,
just support one cause those emails you get even when they are late and the
project's overdue there with love and the,
and you buy something and you preorder it because you buy in and back it.
I think the backing of mentality is how marketers win in the new economy.
You have to think of your customers as backers and let them drive to a larger
goal or you give them a vision and say,
I'm going to execute on this.
I'll let you in on something.
When I launched my book,
I had a an email list and some friends that I sent the book out to for free.
And it's relevant because I used a Google doc,
so I know my audience and I love Google docs,
right?
So I sent it out and I said,
if you give me an edit for the book,
and this is like months before I was going to launch it,
if you give me any feedback if I use it or not,
I'll give you an editor title in my book.
And I learned that from crowdfunding campaigns because I saw people that were,
you could become an executive producer for video series and movies if you
donated a certain amount of money.
And my wife said,
that's a terrible idea,
why would you give your book out for free?
And what I learned was it was the best idea could have patched because the
people that left me the comments made my book better and I pivoted part of it
and it actually had more actions and lessons for people to learn from.
Moreover,
the first people to buy my book at launch and leave reviews on books sites were
my first creditors and they all got in the book.
So psychologically they built it with me.
I mean I have a Gmail account,
which is pretty much my name.
I'm not going to give it out to everyone,
but because I was an early adopter,
right?
And people love getting access early and if you could figure out a way to
psychologically make people feel part of the process,
then you're going to be a winner.
So how's everyone doing?
We go with everyone.
Did,
we're up some questions afterwards.
So do you have questions?
Even now,
as long as you ask them politely.
Um,
you know,
please.
I used to stand up comedy,
so this was a warmer crowd than dive bars in Baltimore.
There's a smoky haze because it's non smoking in this room.
Um,
it's a couple more examples as the giver mentality.
Uh,
Adam Grant,
has he spoken to Google?
Have you seen his work?
Give and take?
It's a phenomenal book.
Give and take you out as a Wharton professor and a business consultant.
He talks about how give her succeed more in life and takers.
Uh,
you obviously know who they are,
right?
They take the most in life and most of us are matchers,
givers,
takers and matchers.
And matchers are people that you helped me quid pro quo.
You scratch my back,
I scratch your back.
You want to collaborate with those people,
right?
But givers succeed the most and they failed the most because you need to give
with your own self interest aligned and you want to give with your own interest
because why give for the sake of giving because you get taken advantage of.
And that's truly remarkable.
I wrote an article,
um,
about why,
you know,
giving and helping others without expecting anything in return is the best
business model for life.
And I threw it up on the website.
Um,
medium.com it's a blog engine and it's already getting surfaced and it made its
way to Adam.
And I ended up getting an email introduction to him because I wrote this
article.
And oftentimes putting yourself out there,
taking a chance,
even if it's a blog post that no one's going to read,
like I registered influencer economy.com years ago and multiple companies ago.
I knew I was never gonna be able to write the book when I had a crazy intense
job.
But I bookmarked it.
I wrote a blog post why I wanted to,
I wanted Google Seo as well because I don't want people searching influencer
economy and having a Gawker media post.
But I ultimately did it because it was a reminder to keep this project going
because life gets in the way and at Google maybe some of your products get
sidled or put on the back burner.
But ultimately that blog post really helps you identify where you stand.
And a,
this is a guy named Troy Carter who I talked to.
He's a Easter managed lady.
Gaga is a wonderful guy.
He managed Lady Gaga and Eve the Rapper,
Biggie smalls,
Aka notorious pig for those playing at home.
And he was a club promoter back in the day and now he's gone on to invest in
companies like Uber and Lyft and Dropbox as an angel investor.
And we talked about pivoting with him cause he wanted to be a hip hop artist.
His goal,
he grew up in west Philadelphia,
born and raised.
So of course his idols were the fresh prince and Jazzy Jeff.
So we pitched them in their studio after stocking them for a couple days,
maybe weeks.
And he realized his passion was in behind the scenes producing and managing
talent.
So he told me that you need to have that personal internal gauge to tell you
when it's time to pivot.
And people may not know that Twitter was originally a podcast network.
Twitter was a podcast that we're called Odeo,
but they realize at the time that apple was going to dominate the podcasting
landscape.
Uh,
Instagram was originally a,
a checking device like foursquare where you could tell people your location,
but they got the market feedback and they pivoted to make the idea better.
And ultimately pivoting comes down to moments in your career or with your
products.
But with Troy,
I asked him,
you know,
how do you go from being a talent manager and the music industry to being a
prolific angel investor in tech companies?
And he told me it was really funny.
He said,
well,
there's curiosity because I thought,
I want to know if there was life on Mars in Silicon Valley as a music executive.
And they want to know if there was life on Mars is a music industry veteran.
And there was a mutual curiosity.
And he waited a year before he even did an investment because he wanted to
survey the landscape.
So pivoting doesn't mean just,
Hey,
I'm going to stop what I'm doing and actually changed my tracks.
It means I'm going to enhance what I'm doing and leverage my opportunities and
build on my network because I have established myself in one field and I can
transition that into another.
Um,
so that is what we're sharing today and the influencer economy with a how to
launch and collaborate and thrive.
And a,
this is the part where I talk about some pun related to stand up comedy because
people always say you need to tie it back to comedy.
So,
um,
I'll just give you one example of what I learned through to stand up was that
you always got to finish your set.
That was the hardest part was when I was doing sets at open mics or at the,
at the improv where I reached my peak was you always have your uh,
your setlist on a cocktail Napkin,
whether you're drinking a beer or water and you have your jokes,
you know,
bands have it as well on stage and they have their set down.
And I got heckled so hard,
this dive bar in Baltimore that people were calling it like,
look at me and think of any like insult that stereotypically you could like make
for me.
And that's what they gave me and I gave up on my set.
And that's what the advice I'd give to anyone with stand up comedy or writing a
book or launching a product is never get deterred and always follow your methods
and your philosophy and finish your set.
Cause even if you get through it and you bomb,
there's always the next gig that you can go to.
The thank you very much for checking this out today.
I'd love to hear,
so you just a little bit about how you've maybe shared some of those same
principles,
uh,
that you walked us through,
but in your life,
like how have you applied some of this Ryan?
Yeah,
so for starters,
you know,
I mentioned I have a podcast.
If you thought if it was present day,
I would not start a podcast right now because it's so competitive and noisy.
But when I started it three years ago,
I was an early adopter and I was,
it was unique so I could lay in a lot of a plus interviews with people like Seth
Godin or Brad Feld.
Then I couldn't get unless I had been an early adopter.
And so that was a characteristic that I realized that I was fortunate to have
and that all these influential people I interviewed always thought about tech to
enable them.
And then equally having that platform of a podcast could get me in the door with
people that ordinarily may not be interested in what I'm working on.
Because as you,
as you know,
I worked at Machinima and these big startups and all these companies maybe
you've never even heard of.
And so why would these influential people talk to me?
But I pitched him on this big vision with the book and who doesn't want to be on
a book in a book,
right?
And then also I had a podcast I'm going to edit meticulously and it's on Itunes,
they can share it with their friends and who doesn't want to talk about
themselves for 45 minutes.
So those two elements really are got reinforced as I kept,
you know,
doing the research for the book.
So how did you make people come to the basketball games?
Um,
so the,
so what this group was an insurgent group.
For those of you that's,
you know,
study marketing.
It's always good to have an enemy,
right?
Google started off with an enemy.
My enemy in this PowerPoint is celebrities like Kim Kardashian and sea crest.
And so our enemy is actually where the memorial maniacs,
they were.
They were this group,
uh,
they did things by the book,
let's just say that.
And so the Psychos is the group I started and I stole the movie font from the
movie and it's put it on a tee shirt.
And then Hitchcock,
he's known for his outline,
has a soliloquy outline.
So I took an Cornelius Vanderbilt silhouette and I put on the back of the t
shirt and I was the anti memorial mania back.
We're going to have fun.
We're in a parties before and after and I made it more of an experience.
So win or lose,
you had that connected community.
And also we went to school with a lot of fragmented fraternities and sororities
and different organizations.
So this was like a neutral party and location where we could all get together
and rally and yell.
And our team ultimately didn't even make the NCA tournament when I started it.
But I think having that community and that connectivity with others,
maybe,
I think a lot of people want to meet folks outside of their network.
That's why,
you know,
Twitter and Facebook and all these communities exist in some ways because you
want to go out of network.
It's like helping people meet other folks that they wouldn't have met in college
was actually a big part of it.
And the basketball was secondary.
It was really the community part of it.
Nice recall.
I like the,
uh,
that question.
So do you tend to have one project you focus on at a time or do you tend to have
several projects going at once?
I have lots of products going at once.
I think,
like I learned from Brad Feld about piloting your ideas,
you know,
I'll get on as long as it doesn't take up too much time.
Like I prioritize my podcasts,
my book,
my consulting business.
Um,
I've a online course that I turned the book.
I'm inspired by the book,
actually someone from the crowd when I,
one of my book tour the summer,
he said,
hey,
you should put this into an online course.
And so I just transferred all the data into a video series.
And ultimately I feel like the strength I've found is to be influential as if
you can repurpose your message.
There's a book called making ideas happen by guy named Scott Belsky.
He started up a hance that was acquired by Adobe.
He talks about how you need to have,
um,
be agnostic to the platform but be mission centric.
So your mission should always be true to anything you do,
whether it's writing a book,
a podcast,
your consulting business,
a course or any products you make.
And that's a great way to help you prioritize what to focus on.
Because if you start going outside of your lane,
then you can realize that,
hey,
maybe I'm veering off too much,
but I believe strongly about piloting new ideas.
Even if you write a blog post that no one reads,
but it got something off your chest and makes you feel better and you can share
it to five people in your network,
then there's value in that.
Um,
this is a topic that a lot of people talk about and I just think that,
you know,
there's a lot of like real content.
They're very,
very interesting.
Thank you for that.
Um,
on your point about metrics.
So,
um,
you know,
reality is a lot of those social networks and the places in which people
congregate on the Internet are all about subscribers,
likes and things like that.
Right?
Then you said that this doesn't necessarily mean whether or not you are a,
an important influencer,
but I guess for people who are arriving at any piece of content from the
outside,
that's the only thing they have on moment zero.
Right,
right.
So guys,
it becomes the Ito's a little bit,
uh,
in a certain way.
So how do,
how do break desires when you're starting out and you know you're,
you have something good to offer but we're going to have to be faced with this
rejection at first we,
with our low numbers.
Oh yeah.
You're going to be re wholeheartedly rejected at first.
Yeah.
I,
I've seen a lot of people through the course of my career that they build this
amazing thing and it's like a empty house when they launch it and they're like,
say,
where are the customers?
I thought people would buy my book or download my product and they don't realize
that you consistently have to be in a phase of relaunching and that you pivot
and he listened to the market.
You get the feedback and then you relaunch the Internet has an incredibly short
memory.
Write things,
mistakes we made at Machinima on Youtube.
We could just take the video down.
People forget,
imagine the inundation of information we get through social media every day.
People make mistakes,
you own it and you move on.
And I think ultimately,
you know,
perseverance is really like you have to have a bigger vision because you can get
lost in the weeds.
Like if you start a pilot,
a project,
let's say you're writing a blog and there's no bigger purpose,
then you're going to lose focus.
So if you can tie it into a longer term opportunity for yourself and say,
this is a channel,
this is a platform.
I'm building an Alpha prototype for a product and I want to get to Beta because
that's going to get me to launch and doing smaller milestones for a bigger
vision.
I feel like wrapping those two up together is a recipe for success because
ultimately it's so easy to lose focus because we're incredibly busy.
And so if you don't have a bigger mission or purpose,
and sometimes that takes time to discover,
and if you don't just put yourself out there,
then you'll never know.
And so if you start something now,
you know,
getting back to your part of your question about making it pop or making it
successful,
it's really fighting that validation.
Like with my podcast,
you know,
I've had some fairly well known people that I didn't invite on the show,
episode number three's guest.
And I built up 25 episodes.
And then I knew,
you know,
Willie geist who's host of the today show from college and I reached out to him
at episode 25 and I said,
I have this ballad,
you know,
audience I have actually,
right?
I started writing the book.
And so don't go after influencers too early.
It's like they can really help like jet fuel to get your product to market in an
accelerated way.
And then equally once they're there,
like,
make sure your website doesn't crash,
make sure your product doesn't break.
Like I was on the front page of Reddit with one of my podcasts and I have,
uh,
have,
children and I was like walking my kid down the street and I see her,
this woman's tweet and she's part of a community called rooster teeth,
which is a youtube network.
She tweets out my link and I'm like freaking out on my kid and you know,
pushing her down the street.
And I like ran home and was just like,
what's going on here?
Like my website stable because I got that search.
And so really having the technology proved out and if your website breaks,
that's a great problem to have.
So your presentation is focused on like consumer goods and performances and
things that mostly or uh,
you know,
products being marketed out there to people.
What about for things like political mindshare?
Could the same general ideas and concepts be,
uh,
applied to something like a political campaign?
Absolutely.
I think getting into the heart of the matter with a finding problems and
people's needs.
So politics is interesting in two ways.
One is how you reach people during the campaign season to find their problems,
to then make them feel heard.
And Sam working on this,
I'm solving this problem with you.
I think that the most phenomenal tech campaign or a political campaigns are run
like a tech product,
right?
Where you do gathering and surveys and you build the Alpha,
you build that core community of people.
They're going to help you reach a critical mass and then you,
you'll reach out to swing states if you're running the presidents and you have
to make a message that goes a little bit more mainstream in most cases.
But ultimately that core community of people whose problems you're solving is
what's gonna get you there.
Like can you like student debt,
right?
For college graduates,
that's a huge problem.
60 million people are affected by it.
So if you run for president,
that's a great market to address and figure out a way to solve that problem with
that community.
Like you would building a product at Google and then secondarily how bills get
passed and how the back and forth having open forums,
town halls to get feedback on bills that you want to pass and have ideas.
And I look at it like if you have a hundred people that give you advice from a
random sample set,
if you get one big idea from that group,
it's entirely worth it,
right?
And it gets people involved so they can help you transcend the message to other
folks to get them on board.
And I look at actually passing bills as it,
you know,
with a tech angle as well.
And that we'd be better served with Congress in passing trans with transparency,
listening to people's needs,
truly collaborating with the community.
And ideally,
you know,
both sides of the aisle.
I was just wondering,
your Bogan,
Amazon has a 200 reviews and all of them five stars.
How did you do that?
Um,
so,
uh,
thank you for checking out the reviews.
They're not vanity metrics,
they're real world metrics,
right?
So I uh,
I'll tell you,
uh,
just the truth,
like I was approached by a friend who was an author and a,
I don't know if I should be admitting this,
but he said,
if you,
I self published,
he said,
if you want a publisher,
then you need a hundred Amazon reviews because that's the 1% or of books on
Amazon.
So 1% of all books have a hundred reviews.
So you said you'll have that social proof if you actually,
uh,
get a hundred reviews and then I'll introduce you to my agent.
And you know,
the rest is history.
So the book's gonna come out next year,
we're translating it into Korea.
Uh,
I went to Korean like simultaneously.
And so a hundred reviews is a huge stress hold.
So I would barter with people.
And if you came to my book event this summer and Raleigh,
North Carolina and I'm signing books and you have a long line of people that are
asking in depth questions,
I would say,
look,
if you leave me an Amazon review,
if you honestly,
you know,
read the book,
I will give you a free Skype consultation when I got back to La.
Right?
So I would barter with people and they would give me amazing feedback on the
book too.
I look up a book like software and I'll publish 2.0 next year and you know,
I'll use that feedback as part of the experience because people have told me how
I could make it better.
And so I found hooks like that where you know,
people like I'm on the board of my kid's preschool and a bunch of people bought
the book and there's that phrase,
just ask like no one knows the Amazon reviews or currency.
They don't know that it's a bartering economy and that that matters to people
like me that are really getting the word out there.
And the fact that it was noticeable,
you know,
a Korean publisher,
I had four people from Korea reached out to me in three weeks and I imagine
those reviews really mattered cause cause you can get social proof from the
community,
right?
Not just influencers.
If you have 1 million youtube subscribers and a bunch of Amazon reviews.
So I really bartered with people because no one understood really from my
friends,
the people that would see it.
So anyone listening now,
please.
If you leave an Amazon review,
honestly,
there'll be a amazing and email me and tell me what you think about the book,
because you have to open yourself up to criticism and the reviews actually are
solid because it was the right focus group,
you know,
with the core community of people who want to read this type of content.
Cool.
Thank you very much.
Yeah,
thank you.
Thank you.
Page.